Now that's it for if and continue on error.
Now there is never feature which I also wanna explore
in this section.
And that would be matrix jobs
or running jobs with help of a matrix.
Now what's that about though?
For that, let's quickly create a new Workflow Matrix Demo
which should be executed once we push.
And then here I'll add one job, which I'll name build.
And this job will run on Ubuntu latest let's say,
and will then receive some steps,
and the first step will be to get the code.
So that's the name of that step.
And then here we use the checkout action
as we did before in this course.
And then thereafter we have another step
where I want to install nodeJS.
Now it would be pre-installed on Ubuntu,
but let's say we wanna use a specific version,
so here we can use the setup-node@ for that.
And then we can specify the exact node version we want
like 14 for example.
And then I install my dependencies,
and we could add caching in front of that,
but to keep things a bit simpler, I'll not do that here.
And then I will build my project.
Build project by running npm run build.
So that's a very simple Workflow we could execute
and it of course does not use any features we
wouldn't have used before.
But now I wanna run this job
this build job with help of a matrix.
And the idea behind a matrix
simply is that you can run the same job
with different configurations
for example, on different runners or different node versions
or any other values you might be interested in changing
at the same time.
You do that by adding the strategy field to your job,
so directly to the job to which it should apply.
And then the matrix below it.
And then here under matrix,
you can add any keys of your choice,
for example, node-version,
but this is totally up to you.
It can be any value that could be changing
and for which you wanna run the job
for different values.
For example, here we could specify multiple node versions
12, 14, 16,
and we could also add the OS key
or the operating-system key, whatever you want.
And also specify multiple values here,
multiple runner values, like Ubuntu latest,
and windows latest for example.
So this now specifies a couple of different values
for keys we're using in our configuration down there.
For example, for the runner,
we can actually turn this into a dynamic field
by using an expression.
You can use this expression syntax basically everywhere
in your Workflow file.
And here we're now using it to set the runner dynamically.
It's not something we did before in the course
but it is something we can do,
and it's often done in conjunction
with such a matrix strategy.
Because we can now use the special matrix context object
which just like the GitHub context object
or the steps context object is provided by GitHub Actions.
And then access operating-system here.
So this key,
so one of the keys we define for the matrix.
And what this will do is it will tell GitHub Actions
to run this built job multiple times,
once per value,
in that operating system array
in that list of operating systems.
And those jobs will be run in parallel by default.
And we can also use the node versions down here
to install different versions of node.
For that, we can use the expression index here,
and access the same matrix context object,
and now the node version key.
Now it's a matrix because now actually this job will run
for all combinations of these values.
So it will run for Ubuntu latest and versions 12, 14, 16,
and Windows latest and versions 12, 14, 16.
And therefore this matrix feature allows you
to quickly run the same job with different configurations.
And again, you could use any values anywhere
in your steps or in your job configuration.
Again, your imagination is the limit.
And this feature can be useful
because sometimes you have for example
a testing process that should run
on different operating systems,
or you wanna build your application
against the different versions of node,
as we're doing it here.
Here it's technically just a dummy example
but still it is a feature you could need
for the exact problem you are trying to solve,
in your work.
So now therefore here,
we added this matrix,
and with that we can push this to the Repository.
And what you'll see there under actions is
that because of this added matrix,
our Matrix Demo Workflow runs of course.
And now you see here
that it's actually executing six jobs in parallel.
And we can view all these jobs,
and you see they run in parallel
for these different combinations.
So node version 12 on Ubuntu and Windows,
node version 14 on Ubuntu and Windows,
and so on.
And you will also see by the way
that for some combinations it will fail
because node version 12 actually
doesn't support all features needed
by the project I provided to you.
And therefore other jobs are also skipped
because we have one failing job.
But you see that some combinations also succeeded.
And that's by the way also something to be aware of.
When using this matrix strategy,
if one job fails, the other jobs are canceled and skipped.
If you don't want that behavior,
you can use continue-on-error on job level,
and set this to true.
Because continue-on-error on job level tells GitHub Actions
to continue executing jobs that are related to this matrix
even if some jobs for some combinations failed.
So here, therefore now I can create a new commit,
added continue-on-error,
and push this to the Repository.
And now with that change made,
you will see that again Matrix Demo will run this Workflow,
and all these jobs are running in parallel.
But now you will see that the version 12 jobs,
so the first two jobs will still fail,
but the other jobs will not be canceled
just because they failed.
Instead they will continue running
because we added continue-on-error on job level.
So let's wait for that to finish here.
Here we go.
As you can see, the first two jobs failed,
but the other jobs still continued and actually succeeded,
they were not canceled
because we added continue-on-error to this job
with a matrix.